well how do you their internet people
it's Bo again if you know me you're
already laughing waiting for the story
if you don't know me you need to know I
used to train law enforcement one day I
was given a class and had a cop asked
about hitting a suspect in the knee with
a baton saying that it was probably more
effective I explained you know you've
got legal tactical of medical liability
the legal and medical liability on that
is gonna eat you alive you don't want to
do anything that could be permanently
disabling like hit a joint unless your
wife is truly in danger and he says well
we write the report if you don't know
what that phrase means it means that the
cops can pretty much say whatever they
want and the police report and it will
be believed even if they are lying it
bothered me that he said it it bothered
me more that I got a room full of cops
and nobody said anything against it and
in fact most of them laughed I never
taught another class for law enforcement
again that was 12 years ago in that time
I have had a number of officers ask me
for training and they normally get
pretty colorful responses this is a
little bit different cop watch that
police militarization video and he I
don't want to put his details out there
he he's been a cop for more than five in
less than ten years he said he'd never
heard the phrase time distance and cover
and I guess in the comment section I
talked about auditory exclusion he'd
never heard of that either he googled it
and said that now he feels a little bad
now what that means is that over the
course of his career he has treated
someone more roughly than he should have
simply because he did not know he ends
his
is this message by saying Bo you're
wrong
we do need militarized training just not
the kind we're getting I want to know
what you know so I don't hurt anybody
okay okay yeah you sir you have my
attention now you said that if I made
this video you would share it with every
cop that you know I'm gonna advise you
against that I'm gonna advise you not to
do that
what you're doing is not gonna be
received well by your brother and in the
thin blue line okay
all right time distance in covered now
if your civilian if you're not a cop
you need to watch this anyway because
you were gonna become a little bit more
critical of law enforcement keep in mind
this is this stuff that was being taught
a decade ago so if you see this stuff
being inappropriately applied today it
is entirely on the department this isn't
new research this has been around for at
least 10 years okay time distance and
cover it's exactly what it sounds like
time if you roll up on a scene you don't
know what's going on you take a little
bit of time to watch the suspect you
keep your distance give him some
breathing room and you stay behind cover
Casey does start shooting at you why do
you want to do this how does this work
in real life how's it play out in real
police work go look at the shooting of
Tamir rice kid playing in a park cops
roll up pull up feet away from him
get out of the car and kill him got him
down time distance and cover would have
saved his life John Crawford guy inside
a Walmart picks up a BB gun from the
store that wasn't in the box calls his I
think girlfriend to ask if he could buy
it for the kid some idiot walking by
calls the cops make it seem like there's
an active shooting going on cops show up
run inside ignore all of the counter
indications like the fact that nobody in
the Walmart
is diving for cover there are no
gunshots nobody seems startled at all
except for those people that see the cop
running with his rifle runs back to
Sporting Goods round the corner Papa
kills him time distance and cover would
have saved his life the list of victims
goes on and on and on most bad shoots
are because this was not applied time
distance and cover please start to use
it
auditory exclusion auditory exclusion
you guys are trained in tunnel vision
right you've heard that term your body
has certain biological responses to
high-stress situations and adrenaline
you're familiar with tunnel vision
because they talk about it and they say
yeah you got to look left or right left
to right you got to be very you know
aware of it when you're in a high-speed
chase otherwise you'll get tunnel vision
auditory exclusion is the hearing
counterpart to that in high-stress
situations you can suffer temporary
hearing loss or limited hearing example
of it from your world guys walk out to
your car turn the siren on and just sit
there it is loud it is annoying right
when you're in a chase you hear it not
really but you hear that radio
that is auditory exclusion at work okay
so what this means is let's say you kick
in the dorm house you got your black
mask on your ho cleats because you're an
operator you kick in the door and
there's that guy stand into his kitchen
sink confused traumatized it's why you
do it that's why you dress that way it's
intimidating it is shocking it is
traumatic
it is high-stress he's standing there at
the kitchen sink and you're telling him
to put his hands on his head and he's
not complying well he's obviously
resisting no he can't hear you
give him a few seconds he'll hear it
another another one of these biological
responses is uh let's say you roll up on
a kid selling a dime bag he takes off
run it that's completely normal that is
completely normal that's not a reason to
shoot him fight flight or freeze that is
you can't kill somebody because they
succumb to a biological response so he
takes off running you give chase you
catch him in an alley and he's standing
there and you're yelling at him put your
hands on your head and he's not doing it
give him a few seconds all he hears
right now it's his heart he's not you
know this is no reason to kill him
to add another dimension of the scenario
you're partners with you another cop
shows up whatever you're both yelling at
it put your hands on your head get on
the ground
you're already messing up you are
already messing up you got a bunch of
cops one person speaks one person gives
commands why because two could give
conflicting commands or they could give
commands that cannot be complied with at
the same time then somebody in the group
of cops believes that he's resisting an
excessive force ensues one person speaks
continue this scenario so you got a guy
maybe he resisted a little bit then he
ran what do you do you got him now right
cuff him what happens next
he falls right throw him on the ground
boom and everybody jumps on it and then
you're surprised when he dies you didn't
beat him to death what happened it's a
misnomer because it isn't normally a
lack of oxygen that does it but if you
want to look into the research on it and
understand the theory it's called
positional asphyxiation for you guys is
what you do go run get winded for you
guys most of y'all that's running out to
the mailbox when you get there put your
hands in your pockets lock your elbows
and
move your feet don't rock back and forth
nothing just freeze it hurts right
your heart still racing so somebody ran
exerted themselves daring while they
were resisting now they can't move their
hands are cuffed you're laying on them
and they have the added stresses that
they're going to jail somebody Eric
garner sighs they might die positional
asphyxiation the next bit is where your
vest where your vest you know there are
a lot of critics of police departments a
bit like they don't want to wear them
play carriers I do I want you to I want
you to have top-of-the-line armor
because it makes you act a little bit
less like a child afraid of their own
shadow when you're scared you do stupid
things you make mistakes so wear your
best and if you are one of the extremely
few cops that gets in a shootout stay
behind cover every video I see of you
guys in a shootout you Starsky and Hutch
it out in the middle of the road popping
off rounds you don't hit the guy why
because you're stressed you're moving
you're scared you're inaccurate because
you don't train fire 48 rounds suspect
hit three times that's 45 rounds they
could have killed some kid could have
killed some single mother could have
killed some elderly guy
stay behind cover I'm not telling you
this because I give care if you get shot
I don't want you shooting somebody else
because you're scared now
a last bit it's not like the other stuff
the other stuff is very researchable
this is more personal advice this is
more personal advice it's something I
have noticed over the years and it's
something that you should probably be
aware of to understand I need to tell
you a story
six weeks ago more or less a friend of
mine is down in the hurricane impact
zone he's a vet and he is a doc he looks
a lot like me only with long hair looks
homeless
he's a DUP he has seen more than most
more than anybody really should he's got
some severe PTSD and he's got problems
with authority he's down there cooking
food and distributing it and I can't
remember if it was because he was
cooking food without a license or he
wasn't supposed to be at the park that
he was distributing it at either way
sheriff's deputy rolls up and this cops
like you you can't do this and he's like
I assure you I can't look I'm doing it
and the cops like you know look you keep
doing this I gotta take you to jail you
need to shut this down the guy goes like
this hold his hands out to be cuffed and
then puts his hands behind his back you
know cough doesn't want to be the
Sheriff of Nottingham either like look I
get off in four hours I got the call you
can't be here when the next shift
arrives I'll be back at the end of my
shift if you're still here I gotta take
you and he left the fact that that cop
exorcised the spirit of the law rather
than the letter of the law is the only
reason he's alive this guy did not put
his hand at the small his back to be
cuffed its worst weapon was
somewhere in North Florida there's a
deputy that has no idea he was seconds
away from having his head turned into a
canoe it's an unjust law it's plainly
unjust law this guy understood that went
with the spirit of the law this was to
protect people from you know unsanitary
conditions chose not to enforce a deer
in a hurricane saved his life
there are a lot of unjust laws out there
when you run across somebody that is
ideologically motivated and they're
breaking the law but the crime has no
victim keep rolling keep rolling the
most dangerous people on the planet are
true believers and now that the
legislation or legislative branches are
passing all these laws that are putting
you face-to-face with these guys you
need to be aware of it trust me
the riddled vet who's feeding someone
after a hurricane they're gonna kill you
so much faster than any drug dealer you
have ever met you need to stay away from
ideologically motivated people you need
to stay away from the do-gooders because
most the do-gooders today they're doing
it out of anger anyway just a thought
you know now to the guy who sent me this
message he said you were gonna approach
your chief and try to get him to give
you advanced training on this kind of
stuff I'm gonna advise you against that
you're gonna lose your job I looked into
the your department it's small it's
going forward and asking for reform
you're gonna get marked you need to have
somebody outside of that department
raise a stink and ask
if the chief goes for it send me a
message how will come up and give the
classes for free anyway y'all have a
nice night